[AUDIO LOGOS]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Throughout history, oracles
have helped humanity through
the dark times.
There are legendary
tales from ancient Greece
of the mystical
oracles at Delphi.
Through the rise and
fall of the Roman Empire,
the word "oracle"
was embedded deeply
into the category
of occult and became
a label instead of a gift.
>> An oracle is basically an
interpretation of the data that
is out there.
Through thousands of
years, the people that
were able to read reality and
to see the reality in a way
that they can observe
everything before it happened,
they became those people
that could advise others
and to receive the data and
information from other levels,
so they became themselves
the interpreters of reality.
>> Oracles are always giving
countercultural information.
If you think of some of the wild
things that many of the oracles
have been saying over the past,
even 100 years, it's out there.
It's wild.
But it's part of the evolution.
So a lot of times
the oracles are
on the front line of bringing
forth this information,
and then it takes a while
to digest and metabolize.
And all of a sudden, soon,
things seem normal that once
weren't.
And now that we understand
that level of reality,
then we can go further.
But the oracles are always
at the cutting edge of that,
so it's a thrilling profession,
and it's a dangerous profession
as well.
The word "oracle" is really
what was used in ancient Greece
in ancient times.
The oracle means at
least three things.
The oracle is a location.
It's a portal where the energies
are able to come through
more easily.
The oracle is the person
or the spirit that
is transmitting
that information,
and the oracle is the message
that is being transmitted.
So there are three
things wrapped up
into that term "oracle."
In the West, the most
famous oracle center
was that of Delphi in Greece.
There was an older
center as well,
known as the oracle of
Dodona, and there were
oracles in Egypt, and so forth.
But somehow the
Delphic oracle has
captured the
imagination of humanity
for a lot of different reasons.
>> In the ancient Greek
world, scholars, soldiers,
statesmen would visit
the oracle at Delphi.
And the physical experience
of visiting the oracle,
based on records that
we have, involved
entering into a cavern
where a female oracle would
be seated on a kind of tripod
above a crevice in the earth.
And this crevice would
emit some kind of vapor,
and the oracle would be
imbibing these vapors, which
facilitated a
trance state and was
said to be able to receive
information from the gods.
>> The oracle at Delphi is still
kind of an interesting mystery
because we know that
these were seers,
just like we have in
the Norse tradition,
where they would sit
upon a raised platform,
just like in the
Norse tradition,
interestingly enough.
But the caves at Delphi have
this interesting little gas,
this volcanic gas
that comes out.
Now of course, if you're
swamped in this gas
and you're completely
inundated, it'll kill you.
But if you are elevated above
it and you're breathing it
just slightly, it'll put
you into an altered state
of consciousness, an altered
state of being, which
will open you up to become a
conduit to let this information
flow through.
>> Once a month, the
oracle would be given.
And so while it started out
as being this local situation
where people were breathing
gases from a hole in the earth
and starting to
prophesy, they were
starting to give all
sorts of information.
But there was a little
problem apparently
in that they would tend
to fall into the hole,
or fall off a cliff,
or something like that.
So they tried to regulate this.
That's when they started
assigning women to this.
>> There were different female
figures seated atop the tripod
in different eras because the
oracle of Delphi was operative
for centuries.
So through some sort
of initiatory process
that we have only
a vague idea of,
a figure named
Pythia, or Phthonus,
would be selected as the oracle
during different generational
periods and would
be the figure who
was seated atop this
tripod, receiving
this extraphysical or
trance state information.
So the individual personas
are lost to history,
but different women across
different generations
would function in the
role of seer at Delphi.
>> There was a woman named
Themistoclea who was one
of the Delphic pythias.
That was their title.
Pythagoras took all of his
precepts from this woman.
He would sit at her feet.
So if we think he's
the father of geometry,
no, Themistoclea
was, along with many
of the other esoteric precepts
that he was all about,
the Pythagoreans.
There was an older
oracle named Herophile
who would stand on this
particular rock at the site,
and she would deliver
these oracles in verse.
Can you imagine a kind of
a rhyming, cadenced verse?
And there were others like this.
>> We may or may not know
the entire intricacies
of the entire practice, like how
they set up, how they dressed,
how they performed.
But what interests
me more is what's
going on at the
mental level, what's
going on at the spiritual level.
And so all of
those accoutrements
is nothing more than opening the
veil, getting their mind tuned
in to those
frequencies, which comes
through their spiritual
practice, their meditation.
All of their devotional works
before going into that rite
tunes them into the
work that they're doing.
So you loosen, you're
open, you're connected,
and ultimately,
that's what they were
doing at the Delphi oracle.
>> We also know is that the
oracle went through a different
transition where the women
were originally channeling
the consciousness of Gaia
herself, Mother Earth.
And then there were different
types of deities or entities
that ended up coming in
and taking over and being
the intelligence that was
delivered through these women,
until ultimately what we
have is Apollo, the sun god.
So this is a very detailed and
intense history and process
of what would go on
with these women.
It seems that the
primary location
where they would receive the
information was in their wombs.
And what this was
understood to be
was the spirit of the
god coming into the womb.
And the Christian writers
were horrified about this.
They would write,
and this was one
of the ways in which
they were trying
to get rid of paganism and so
forth because they were saying,
look at what's going on at
Delphi, among other places.
And in fact, these
women would declare
themselves the celibate
wives, daughters,
and sisters of Apollo.
So it's very fascinating and
mysterious when you start
looking at this information.
>> By the late 1500s, most
of the oracle traditions were
labeled witchcraft
throughout England.
Queen Elizabeth I
was on the throne,
and Shakespeare plays
ruled the narrative.
Several speculate that her
Majesty's secret service was
full of mysterious personas.
Some argue that
Shakespeare was also
deeply entrenched with
this secret service
and working closely
with one of the Queen's
main esoteric
advisors, Dr. John Dee.
Evidence is mounting that,
together, Dee and Shakespeare
crafted an elaborate,
cryptographic masterpiece
through sonnets
and plays that was
meant to be discovered once
the Dark Ages had long passed.
>> One of the most curious and
underrepresented characters
of the whole Renaissance is
this character, Dr. John Dee,
who was, one can safely say,
the leading mathematician
of the time, the
leading astrologer,
the leading cryptographer.
He was a spy for Her Majesty on
Her Majesty's secret service.
His code number when he was
spying for her in Europe was
007.
He's the person that is
working with Shakespeare
to bring this wonderful
knowledge of unifying
the poetry and the math, all the
balancing, all the opposites,
so that you're back into
unity consciousness.
That's true alchemy.
That's what Dee's goal was.
He was dealing in
the occult, and he
was dealing in trying to
communicate with angels,
and you just don't do
that 400 years ago.
And yet, he was under the
radar, trying to do that,
because he truly
believed that he
could bring about a
reformation of the world.
He felt all the schisms between
Catholicism and Protestantism
and Judaism and Islam and all
the world's major religions
connecting.
They should be one.
They should be this
unity of the divine,
and that was his true
ultimate purpose.
And he tried to bring
about this healing
through contact
with higher beings.
That was his means.
He thought, if I could
just speak to the angels,
I can help the world heal.
Since he was not clairvoyant
or clairaudient himself,
he needed a medium, which in
those days was called a scryer.
So this guy shows up on his
doorstep named Edward Kelley,
and he's a good scryer.
He immediately starts
getting results,
looking into some sort of an
obsidian mirror or a crystal
ball.
We don't know for
sure what it was.
He impresses Dee right away
because he can see the angels.
And so begins about
a 10-year period
where they are
scrying to the angels.
So Dee believes he's talking
with Uriel, Gabriel, Michael,
and Raphael, four archangels.
And from the work that I've been
able to glean from the codes
that he's left, it's
absolutely clear
that he was because they
give codes that are utterly
unfailing in their brilliance
and their accuracy,
and their precision
is mind-boggling.
It's just so beautiful, and
there's no other explanation
than that this was given
by divine providence
to Dee through angelic beings.
In the middle of their
entire roller coaster
ride of experimentation
with talking to angels,
something is downloaded to Dee
called the Enochian Tables.
It's a grid of
four quadrants that
were given to John Dee, a
massive, massive download
in which Kelley is seeing flames
60-foot high, with the letters.
And he'd name a
letter, and Dee would
write it down, and name another
letter and write it down.
They told him the absolute grid
to put it into, 624 characters.
And it ends up being this
massive thing that had then
been co-opted
through the centuries
later by Aleister Crowley,
The Golden Dawn, Israel
Regardie, these names that are
in the esoteric modern era.
It totally takes Dee
out of the picture.
They step in and say,
oh, Dee and Kelley
didn't know what they
were talking about.
Yeah, that was interesting.
We'll take it from here, fellas.
And they change it,
and they give you
all kinds of added information,
and they turn the Enochian
Tables into little
pyramids and colors,
and it's completely different.
>> There are different versions
of the Enochian Tables.
The 20th century magician Anton
LaVey used a kind of reformed
or adapted Enochian language
in one of his books,
and there are
different permutations,
just as there are different
permutations of the tree
of life symbolism in Kabbalah.
>> Throughout the Renaissance,
occult practices remained deep
underground.
During the 1700s,
the Revolutionary War
raged in North America,
and the French Revolution
was in full swing.
Those in tune with their
extrasensory perceptions
began gathering and enjoying
their newfound freedom
to share and express
their healing gifts.
>> Here in the United States,
when we think of new religious
movements, new trends, and
alternative spirituality,
naturally people
think of California.
But it was really New York
State in the early days
of the nation that served as a
springboard for everything that
was novel and fresh
and experimental
in religious movements.
In particular, there was an
area in the early to mid 1800s
in central New
York State referred
to as the Burned
Over District, which
became the birthplace
of everything that
was new in religious
and social thought.
This was a snaking
stretch of land
that was bordered by Buffalo
in the west and Albany
in the east.
And it was opened up
to land speculation
after the War of
Independence, and people
flooded into the
Burned Over District,
and it became ground zero
for new congregations,
new movements.
It was the birthplace
of Mormonism,
of Seventh Day Adventism,
of spiritualism, or talking
to the dead, of suffragism, and
the women's rights movement.
It gave birth to all
kinds of mystical figures,
mediums, channelers,
many of whom
really settled
central New York State
and dispersed different
religious ideas
around the nation.
>> There is a very powerful
vortex connected to spirit
in that area, and therefore,
there are certain places
on your planet that
are more likely,
more probable than other places
because of those vortices
for certain realizations and
cognitions to be awakened
in humanity.
When you get enough
individuals of similar intent,
shall we say, congregating
in some of those vortices,
things can, in a
positive way, explode.
You can amplify and magnify
that energy many times
over within such a vortex.
>> The Fox sisters are some of
the most influential figures
to emerge from the
Burned Over District.
Kate and Margaret Fox
were two adolescent girls
who lived in a small village
outside of Rochester, New York
in central New York State.
And in the winter of 1848, they
told their shocked Methodist
parents that the
bangs and raps that
were being heard in the
family cabin were spirit raps
and that the girls had
devised a kind of language
to communicate with
the spirit world,
not much different than
Kelley and John Dee.
And in this case, they were
consorting with spirits
through sound and
noise that were heard
throughout the family cabin.
So different figures
descended upon the cabin
to investigate the girls--
newspaper reporters, judges,
preachers.
And many of them
came away concluding
that Kate and Margaret
were telling the truth,
and thus was born the
movement called spiritualism,
or talking to the dead.
The adjoining area
of the Hudson Valley
was also home to a
lot of people who
were engaged in spiritualism,
channeling, mediumship, talking
to the dead.
Inevitably, people who were
interested in reaching larger
audiences migrated out of
the Burned Over District
and might have traveled down the
Hudson Valley to New York City.
And one of the most
influential group of seekers,
a group that I'm personally
very attached to,
was called the Miracle Club.
This was a small circle
of spiritual seekers
who assembled together
in New York City in 1875.
They were interested in
probing mediumship, Kabbalah,
reincarnation,
different Eastern and
Western esoteric traditions.
And although they existed
for only a short time,
this became the nucleus
that shortly after went on
to found the Theosophical
Society in the fall of 1875,
which is an organization
still existing today,
dedicated to studying
world religion in all
of its variants.
And it really ignited
the revolution
in alternative spirituality that
swept the globe and continues
to today.
>> Christianity has had a
powerful influence on humanity.
Through the tales and
messages woven through the New
Testament, humans are taught
lessons of love and unity
as well as loss and betrayal.
But the question
remains, how much
did this religion influence
humanity's ability
to channel at the quantum level?
>> Ages ago, humanity was
actually more open to receiving
spiritual communication.
A lot more people
than today were
really open to their
psychic abilities.
They didn't just believe
that there were spirits out
in the wild in
the natural world,
that their ancestors
walked among them.
It was a part of
their daily life.
their existence,
that they knew that
the spirits were there.
>> When you start
learning about channeling,
you will come across this idea
that channeling experiences run
in families.
So we're really
curious about if we
could see this in the DNA
and the actual genetics.
So we did a small
pilot study where
we vetted various psychics who
were very high-functioning.
We had them go through
many different hoops
to test their actual
psychic ability.
And most of these had people
with psychic abilities
in their families.
Then we got control people who
were matched for age, gender,
and race who didn't have
any psychic abilities, who
performed very poorly
on all the tests
and also didn't have any family
members that they believed
had these abilities as well.
We got saliva samples from
them and did a genetic analysis
to look at the similarities
and differences between them.
We found something very unique.
There was a difference
between the two
in a part of the DNA
called the non-coding part.
So this used to be
called the junk DNA,
but now it's called
non-coding because they
know that it plays a pivotal
role in DNA's function.
So the version of this
DNA that the psychics had
was the original, or
what's called the wild type
version of these genes,
whereas the control group
had a mutation.
So that's really
fascinating, when
you think about our premise
that all humans innately have
this capacity.
It was this original version.
So we took that one
step further and looked
at large genetic
databases to see
the expression of
this genetic code,
and we found that-- we
looked at two pieces.
One was the spread
of Christianity
because we know
that Christianity
obviously persecuted people
who expressed these traits.
And we did find an
association between the spread
of Christianity
and the mutation,
meaning less psychic ability
or no psychic ability.
We also had this
hypothesis that perhaps it
would be associated with
technology because as we become
more dependent on technology
for location and food sources,
et cetera, that we wouldn't
need to be able to tune in
to know where the water is or
where the herd of buffalo is,
and it would not select
for psychic ability.
And that also had
an association.
So the countries that
had increased technology
had more expression of
this mutation, so less
psychic abilities, in essence.
>> Christian practice, it came
in that their Bible talked
about how mediumship,
about how channeling,
about connecting with
spirits was an evil practice.
People who were
absolutely in tune
with things, people who
were natural healers who
had this ability were brought
to a near non-existence.
And that would have
affected our genetic line,
that the people who had
a natural proclivity
for psychic ability,
for channeling,
were no longer in the gene pool.
Now that those bonds of
Orthodox Christianity
are not as tight
as they once were,
people are starting to
open their abilities.
They're starting to
come around more.
And I'll bet you
we're going to start
seeing more and
more of those genes
in the whole genetic structure
of the world starting
to increase and grow even
more because more people
are becoming psychic today.
More people are getting in tune,
and they're becoming aware.
>> We're moving from the time
where people are being attacked
for being an oracle into a time
where they are being consulted.
>> As more and more discover
and tune their extra senses,
what messages will be delivered
to inspire and remind us about
the power of unconditional love?
>> If all beings loved
themselves unconditionally,
they would have the
capability of loving others.
There would be no
resistance or judgment.
Judgment is just a projection
from the individual judging.
We often say to judge another's
path is inappropriate,
for you know not what the
soul's choice and expansion is
to be by the learnings
they're having,
from whatever they're choosing
or deciding for on their path.
Just because you
would not choose
it does not mean it's
not right for their path.
>> You are doing everything you
can do by sharing information
you believe to be
helpful with others.
What they do with
that information,
whether they use it
or not, is absolutely
none of your business because
you don't know their path.
You have to let go of
any need that someone
has to understand
or listen or believe
what it is you're sharing.
Then it comes from the
unconditional love,
and then you actually
make it more likely
that they will probably
choose it at some point.
But even if it's 10 or 100
years from now or in other lives
or other dimensions,
eventually they'll
remember what you
taught, what you shared,
and it may be useful to them
somewhere down the road.
They don't have to
know it in this life.
So we would always suggest that
everyone let go of the idea
that anyone needs to learn these
things because again, remember,
you don't change the
planet you're on,
you're shifting to other worlds.
If you share information and
give them the opportunity
to choose something
more positive,
something that will
allow them to shift
to more positive
versions of Earth,
you have done everything
that you can, and that's it.
You cannot in any way, shape
or form insist that they must
understand.
That's not your business.